---
source: House of Shadow
---

# Psychoteric Whispers

_Source: House of Shadow_

A Delaque’s ability to subvert reality goes far beyond
the spreading of simple mistruths and rumours. The
most accomplished of their kind can tap into the
Psychoterica generated by their brothers and sisters,
and channel it into lies so potent that they can shift a
sentient being’s perception of their surroundings. To
deliver these lies, the Delaque must get close, often
leaning in to whisper in the ear of their intended victim,
but the effects can be dramatic. With a psychoteric
whisper, they can make their enemies see friends as
foes, think their weapons have failed them, or even
become blind to the presence of the Delaque.

Psychoteric Whispers are special short ranged psychic
abilities possessed by certain Delaque. Much like skills
they enhance the abilities of a fighter in specific ways
and can be employed by using actions, most often with
an enemy fighter as the target. Psychoteric Whispers
are, in effect, psychic powers and use the rules for
manifesting, disrupting and maintaining Wyrd Powers
found in the Necromunda Rulebook.

## Mastery Of Lies

To use Psychoteric Whispers, a Delaque fighter must
first be upgraded to become a Psyker. Only a Master
of Shadow or Phantom may be upgraded in this way – note that Psy-Gheists may also make use of these
powers as they are already Psykers when added to
the gang. Fighters can either be upgraded to become
Psykers during gang creation, or by spending XP
later on:

- A Delaque Master of Shadow or Phantom may be
  upgraded to become a Psyker when added to a gang
  roster for a cost of 30 credits (this increases their
  credits value accordingly). The fighter gains both
  the Psychoteric Mastery and Non-sanctioned Psyker
  special rules (as follows).
- A Delaque Master of Shadow or Phantom may be
  upgraded to become a Psyker by taking an advance
  at a cost of 7 XP (this increases their credits value by
  +30). The fighter gains both the Psychoteric Mastery
  and Non-sanctioned Psyker special rules (as follows).

**Psychoteric Mastery:** A fighter with this special rule is
a Psyker, as described in the Necromunda Rulebook,
and is able to use Psychoteric Whispers. The fighter
must choose one discipline (Madness, Delusion or
Darkness) to specialise in and may immediately select
a single Wyrd Power from that discipline to know.

During Campaign play, this fighter may gain additional
Wyrd Powers from their chosen discipline in exactly
the same way as they might gain a Primary Skill (i.e.,
by spending 6 XP to gain a random Wyrd Power, or by
spending 9 XP to choose a Wyrd Power).

**Non-sanctioned Psyker:** Should a fighter with this
special rule be taken Out of Action, the enemy gang
is rewarded a bounty of D3x10 credits at the end of
the battle. Should a fighter with this special rule be
captured and sold to the Guilders, they are worth their
full value.

:::info

## Psychoteric Choirs

All Delaque share a link to the Psychoterica
and, even if they are not skilled in the use
of Psychoteric Whispers, can aid those that
are. When a Delaque fighter (including House
Agent Hired Guns, Hangers-on and Brutes)
uses a Psychoteric Whisper, its potency will
be increased for every friendly Delaque fighter
that is within 3" of them, is Standing and is
not Engaged, as the other Delaque join in with
hissing whispers under their breath. Each
eligible Delaque fighter within this range will
increase the range of the Psychoteric Whisper by
1" (to a maximum of +3").

In addition, the Psychoteric Whisper will be harder
to resist, and any Intelligence check made to resist
the Psychoteric Whisper must reduce the result of
the dice roll by 1 for each friendly Delaque fighter
within 3" of the whisperer (to a maximum of 3).

:::

## Madness

_The psychoteric discipline of Madness is the psychic mastery of fear and insanity, and those skilled in its use can make those who hear their whispers lose all rational thought. At its most simple, it instils panic and indecisiveness in those it touches, but a skilled psyker can expand it even further, until the world breaks down around their victims, leaving only a realm of darkness and terror from which there can be no escape._

### 1. Existential Barrage (Simple)

Choose a single enemy fighter that is within 1" of
the Psyker. That fighter immediately makes an Intelligence check. If this check is
failed, they become Broken and immediately flee. If, after they have moved, there are
any fighters friendly to them within 5", those fighters must also immediately pass a
Nerve test or also become Broken.

### 2. Terrible Truths (Basic)

Choose a single enemy fighter that is within 3" of the
Psyker. That fighter must make an Intelligence check. If this check is failed, they gain
the Insane condition.

### 3. Psychotic Lure (Basic)

Choose a single enemy fighter that currently has a
Ready marker and is within 3" of the Psyker. The opposing player must activate that
fighter in their next turn. The chosen fighter cannot perform a Group Activation when
next activated.

### 4. Cyclopean Gaze (Double)

Choose a single enemy fighter that currently has a
Ready marker and is within 1" of the Psyker. The chosen fighter immediately loses
their Ready Marker.

### 5. Craven Howl (Basic), Continuous Effect

While this power is maintained, Broken
enemy fighters cannot attempt to Rally whilst within 5" of the Psyker.

### 6. Unrememberable Utterance (Simple), Continuous Effect

While this power is
maintained, all enemy fighters who activate whilst within 3" of the Psyker can only
perform one action, rather than the usual two (note that this means the fighter will
be unable to perform a Double action).

## Delusion

_Reality is a mutable substance, as psykers skilled in the psychoteric discipline of Delusion well know. Eyes and ears can be made to betray their owners, and even once-trusted allies can seem as enemies should the psyker’s powers do their work. Even an enemy’s own flesh can be turned against them with this power, their mind making phantasmal horrors into terrible reality._

### 1. Spatial Psychosis (Simple)

Choose a single enemy fighter within 12" of the
Psyker, that is Standing and is not Engaged. That fighter immediately becomes
Pinned. Note that if that fighter is within ½" of the edge of a ledge or platform, this
may cause them to fall.

### 2. Seen Unseen (Basic), Continuous Effect

Choose a single enemy fighter that is
within 3" of the Psyker. While this power is maintained, the chosen fighter treats all
fighters as being enemy fighters, and all fighters treat the chosen fighter as being an
enemy fighter.
Note that this means any rule, special or otherwise, that affects friendly fighters
or friendly faction fighters ceases to work for the chosen fighter whilst this
power is maintained as the chosen fighter has no friendly fighters of any sort on
the battlefield.

### 3. Ghost and Shadow (Basic)

Choose a single enemy fighter that is within 10" of
the Psyker. The Psyker’s controlling player may immediately change this fighter’s
facing (in other words, they may turn the model to face any direction).

### 4. Deceitful Thoughts (Double)

Choose a single enemy fighter that is within 5" of
the Psyker. That fighter immediately makes an Intelligence check. If this check is
failed, the Psyker’s controlling player may immediately move that fighter up to their
Move characteristic in any direction. Note that this move may not be used to move
enemy fighters off ledges, into dangerous terrain or any other part of the battlefield
harmful to them.

### 5. Suicidal Embrace (Basic)

Choose a single enemy fighter that is within 3" of the
Psyker. That fighter immediately makes an Intelligence check. If this check is failed,
that fighter must resolve a single close combat attack against themselves with one
of their Melee weapons (chosen at random, if the fighter has no weapons with the
Melee trait, they will make an unarmed attack against themselves). This attack
automatically hits, but must roll to wound and inflict Damage as normal.

### 6. Opprobrious Curse (Simple)

Choose a single enemy fighter that is within 3" of
the Psyker. That fighter immediately makes a Toughness check. If this check is failed,
the fighter immediately suffers a Flesh Wound.

## Darkness

_Darkness is a powerful ally for those with the skill to shape it. In the underhive, shadows are plentiful and offer protection for hunters and hunted alike, though for those skilled in the psychoteric discipline of Darkness, they offer a special advantage. With the power of their minds, they can wrap themselves in this blackness, using it to conceal themselves in the open or bring down blinding darkness upon their enemies._

### 1. Cacophony of Silence (Double), Continuous Effect

While this power is
maintained, all enemy fighters within 5" of the Psyker must re-roll successful Hit rolls
when making a ranged attack.

### 2. Penumbral Mirror (Basic)

Choose one enemy fighter and one friendly fighter
that are both currently within 5" of the Psyker. Immediately move the chosen friendly
fighter to any other point within 5" of the chosen enemy fighter. The chosen friendly
fighter may even move into base contact with the chosen enemy fighter.

### 3. A Perfect Void (Basic), Continuous Effect

While this power is maintained, the
Psyker counts as being in full cover to all enemy fighters within 10".

### 4. Eternal Slumber (Double)

All Seriously Injured enemy fighters within 3" of the
Psyker immediately go Out of Action.

### 5. Cloak of Whispers (Basic), Continuous Effect

While this power is maintained,
the Psyker and all friendly Delaque fighters within 3" of them cannot be the target of,
or be affected by, any gang tactics played by the enemy player.

### 6. Sight Blight (Basic), Continuous Effect

While this power is maintained, all
enemy fighters within 5" of the Psyker count as being affected by the Pitch Black
rules as detailed in the Necromunda Rulebook. Note that this does not actually
create an area of darkness and only affects those who enter or remain in range of
the Psyker.
